[IMP] IoT: edits to all IoT docs (#3673)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/productivity/iot/config/troubleshooting.rst

For most printers, the correct driver should be automatically detected and selected. However, in
some cases, the automatic detection mechanism might not be enough, and if no driver is found the
printer might print random characters.

The solution is to manually select the corresponding driver. On the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`
Box homepage, click on :guilabel:`Printers Server`, go to the :guilabel:`Printers` tab and select
the printer in the list. In the :guilabel:`Administration` dropdown, click on :guilabel:`Modify
Printer`. Follow the steps and select the :guilabel:`Make and Model` corresponding to the printer.

.. image:: troubleshooting/troubleshooting_printer_02.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Edit the printer connected to the IoT box.

.. note::
   Epson and Star receipt printers and Zebra label printers do not need a driver to work. Make sure
   that no driver is selected for those printers.

The Zebra printer doesn't print anything
----------------------------------------

Zebra printers are quite sensitive to the format of the ZPL code that is printed. If nothing comes
out of the printer or blank labels are printed, try changing the format of the report that is sent

> to the printer by accessing :menuselection:`Settings --> Technical --> Views` in developer mode and

Reviewer: add reference to developer mode doc

Things)` box and should also be displayed on connected monitors.

The pairing code doesn't show under the following circumstances:

- The :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box is already connected to an Odoo database.
- The :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box is not connected to the Internet.
- The code is only valid for 5 minutes after the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box has started.
  it's automatically removed from connected displays when this time has expired.
- The version of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box image is too old. If the :abbr:`IoT
  (Internet of Things)` box image is from an earlier version, then the SD card of the :abbr:`IoT
  (Internet of Things)` box will need to be re-flashed to update the image (see :doc:`Flashing the
  SD Card <flash_sdcard>`).

If none of the cases listed above correct the issue, then make sure that the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
Things)` box has correctly started, by checking that a fixed green LED is showing next to the power
port.

IoT box is connected but it's not showing in the database
---------------------------------------------------------

> When an :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box connects to a database, the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
> Things)` box might restart. If that is the case, it might take up to five minutes before appearing
> in the database. If after some time the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box is still not showing,
> make sure that the database can be reached from the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box and that
> the server doesn't use a multi-database environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When an :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box connects to a database, it may restart. If so, it can take 
up to five minutes before appearing in the database. If the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box is still not showing after five minutes, make sure that the box can reach the database and that
the server doesn't use a multi-database environment.
```

To access the database from the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box, open a browser and type in the
database address.

The IoT box is connected to the Odoo database, but cannot be reached
--------------------------------------------------------------------

> Make sure that the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box and the device (computer) running the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure that the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box and the computer running the
```

browser are located on the same network, as the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box cannot be
reached from outside the local network.

The HTTPS certificate doesn't generate
--------------------------------------

> In order to generate a Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure certificate, an IoT box subscription is

Reviewer 2: Use an abbreviation tag for HTTPS.

Author: Noted, thanks. I've added this in.

> required for the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box. Connecting the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
> Things)` box prior to configuring an :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` subscription for the database
> and :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box with the Account Manager will result in an unsecured
> connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
required for the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box. Connecting the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
Things)` box prior to configuring an :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` subscription for the database
and box with the Account Manager will result in an unsecured
connection.
```

In addition, a firewall can also prevent the :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)`
certificate from generating correctly. In this case, deactivate the firewall until the certificate

> is successfully generated. It should also be noted that certain devices, such as a router that have
> a firewall built-in to the software of the unit can prevent the :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is successfully generated. It should also be noted that certain devices, such as a router that has
a built-in firewall, can prevent the :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer
```

Protocol Secure)` certificate from generating.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`HTTPS certificate (IoT) <https_certificate_iot>`

Printer
=======

The printer is not detected
---------------------------

> If one of the printers doesn't show up in the devices list, go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a printer doesn't show up in the devices list, go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
```

> If one of the printers doesn't show up in the devices list, go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a printer doesn't show up in the devices list, go to the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
```

Author: Duplicate

> Things)` box home page and make sure that it is listed under :guilabel:`Printers`.

Reviewer 2: The IoT box home page should have a label.

Author: Noted, nice catch.

.. image:: troubleshooting/printer-status.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The IoT box Home Page landing page.

> If the printer is not present on the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box home page, click

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above.

:guilabel:`Printers Server`, go to the :guilabel:`Administration` tab and click on :guilabel:`Add
Printer`. If the printer is not present in the list, it's likely not connected properly.

The printer outputs random text
-------------------------------

For most printers, the correct driver should be automatically detected and selected. However, in

> some cases, the automatic detection mechanism might not be enough, and if no driver is found the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
some cases, the automatic detection mechanism might not be enough, and if no driver is found, the
```

printer might print random characters.

The solution is to manually select the corresponding driver. On the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`

> box homepage, click on :guilabel:`Printers Server`, go to the :guilabel:`Printers` tab and select

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above.

Printer`. Follow the steps and select the :guilabel:`Make and Model` corresponding to the printer.

.. image:: troubleshooting/modify-printer.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Edit the printer connected to the IoT box.

.. note::
   Epson and Star receipt printers and Zebra label printers do not need a driver to work. Make sure
   that no driver is selected for those printers.

The Zebra printer doesn't print anything
----------------------------------------

Zebra printers are quite sensitive to the format of the ZPL code that is printed. If nothing comes
out of the printer or blank labels are printed, try changing the format of the report that is sent
to the printer by accessing :menuselection:`Settings --> Technical --> User Interface --> Views` in
:ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>` and look for the corresponding template.

Barcode scanner
===============

The characters read by the barcode scanner don't match the barcode
------------------------------------------------------------------

By default, most barcode scanners are configured in the US QWERTY format. If the barcode scanner

> uses a different layout, go to the form view of the device (:menuselection:`IoT App --> Devices -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
uses a different layout, go to the form view of the device (:menuselection:`IoT --> Devices -->
```

Barcode Device`) and select the correct format.

Nothing happens when a barcode is scanned
-----------------------------------------

Make sure that the correct device is selected in the :menuselection:`Point of Sale` configuration
and that the barcode is configured to send an ENTER character (keycode 28) at the end of every

> barcode. Navigate to :menuselection:`POS app --> 3-Dot Menu on the POS --> IoT Box section --> Edit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
barcode. Navigate to :menuselection:`PoS --> 3-Dot Menu on the POS --> IoT Box section --> Edit
```

> barcode. Navigate to :menuselection:`POS app --> 3-Dot Menu on the POS --> IoT Box section --> Edit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
barcode. To do so, navigate to :menuselection:`PoS --> 3-Dot Menu on the PoS --> IoT Box section --> Edit
```

--> Barcode Scanners`.

The barcode scanner is detected as a keyboard
---------------------------------------------

.. important::
   Some barcode scanners do not advertise themselves as barcode scanners but as a USB keyboard
   instead, and will not be recognized by the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.

> The device type can be manually changed by going to its form view (:menuselection:`IoT App -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The device type can be manually changed by going to its form view (:menuselection:`IoT -->
```

Reviewer 3: Again, saying `app` is fine in the `menuselection`

Devices --> Barcode Device`) and activating the :guilabel:`Is scanner` option.

.. image:: troubleshooting/barcode-scanner-settings.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Modifying the form view of the barcode scanner.

Cash drawer
===========

The cash drawer does not open
-----------------------------

The cash drawer should be connected to the printer and the :guilabel:`Cash drawer` checkbox should

> be ticked in the :abbr:`PoS (Point of Sale)` configuration. Navigate to :menuselection:`POS app -->
> 3-Dot Menu on the POS --> IoT Box section --> Edit --> Receipt Printer --> Cashdrawer checkbox`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
be ticked in the :abbr:`PoS (Point of Sale)` configuration. To do so, navigate to :menuselection:`PoS -->
3-Dot Menu on the PoS --> IoT Box section --> Edit --> Receipt Printer --> Cashdrawer checkbox`.
```

Reviewer 3: `POS app` is fine, for the record.

subscription is required for the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box. Connecting the :abbr:`IoT
(Internet of Things)` box prior to configuring an :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` subscription for
the database and :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box with the Account Manager will result in an
unsecured connection.

In addition, a firewall can also prevent the :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)`
certificate from generating correctly. In this case, deactivate the firewall until the certificate
is successfully generated. It should also be noted that certain devices, such as a router that has
a built-in firewall, can prevent the :abbr:`HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure)` certificate
from generating.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`HTTPS certificate (IoT) <https_certificate_iot>`

Printer
=======

The printer is not detected
---------------------------

If a printer doesn't show up in the devices list, go to the :menuselection:`IoT Box Home Page` and
make sure that it is listed under :guilabel:`Printers`.

.. image:: troubleshooting/printer-status.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The IoT box Home Page landing page.

> If the printer is not present on the :menuselection:`IoT Box Home Page` click :guilabel:`Printers

Reviewer 2: Add comma
```suggestion
If the printer is not present on the :menuselection:`IoT Box Home Page`, click :guilabel:`Printers
```

is printed. If nothing comes out of the printer or blank labels are printed, try changing the format
of the report that is sent to the printer by accessing :menuselection:`Settings --> Technical -->
User Interface --> Views` in :ref:`developer mode <developer-mode>` and look for the corresponding
template.

.. seealso::
   Check out Zebra's instructions on printing :abbr:`ZPL (Zebra Programming Language)` files `here
   <https://supportcommunity.zebra.com/s/article/Print-a-zpl-file-using-the-Generic-Text-Printer_>`_.

Barcode scanner
===============

The characters read by the barcode scanner don't match the barcode
------------------------------------------------------------------

By default, most barcode scanners are configured in the US QWERTY format. If the barcode scanner
uses a different layout, go to the form view of the device (:menuselection:`IoT App --> Devices -->
Barcode Device`) and select the correct format.

Nothing happens when a barcode is scanned
-----------------------------------------

Make sure that the correct device is selected in the :menuselection:`Point of Sale` configuration

> and that the barcode is configured to send an ENTER character (keycode 28) at the end of every

Author: Noted; yes, I will add the backticks. Thanks.

IoT Box Connection
==================

Unable to locate the pairing code to connect the IoT Box
--------------------------------------------------------

The pairing code should be printed on receipt printers connected to the
:abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box and should also be displayed on connected monitors.

The pairing code doesn't show under the following circumstances:

-  The :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box is already connected to an Odoo database;

-  The :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box is not connected to the Internet;

> -  The code is only valid for 5 minutes after the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box has started.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
-  The code is only valid for 5 minutes after the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box has started;
```

   It's automatically removed from connected displays when this delay has expired; from connected

>    displays when this delay has expired;

Author: Noted this was an error in the RST code.

-  The version of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box image is too old. If the :abbr:`IoT
   (Internet of Things)` Box image is from an earlier version, then the SD card of the
   :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box will need to be re-flashed to update the image. (see
   :doc:`Flashing the SD Card <flash_sdcard>`)

If none of the cases listed above correct the issue, then make sure that the
:abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box has correctly started, by checking that a fixed green LED is
showing next to the power port.

IoT Box is connected but it's not showing in the database
---------------------------------------------------------

When an :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box connects to a database, the

> :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box might restart, if that is the case, it might take up to one

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
:abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box might restart. If that is the case, it might take up to one
```

> minute before appearing in the database. If after some time the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` is

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
minute before appearing in the database. If after some time the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box is
```

still not showing, make sure that the database can be reached from the
:abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box and that the server doesn't use a multi-database environment.

The IoT Box is connected to the Odoo database, but cannot be reached
--------------------------------------------------------------------

Make sure that the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box and the device running the browser are

> located on the same network as the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box cannot be reached from

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
located on the same network, as the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box cannot be reached from
```

outside the local network.

The HTTPS certificate doesn't generate
--------------------------------------

In order to generate a HTTPS certificate a Odoo database subscription is necessary for the \
:abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box. Connecting the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box prior to
configuring a subscription for the database and :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box with the
Account Manager will result in an unsecured connection.

In addition, a firewall can also prevent the HTTPS certificate from generating correctly. In this
case, deactivate the firewall until the certificate is successfully generated. It should also be
noted that certain devices, such as a router that has a firewall built-in to the software of the

> unit can prevent the HTTPS certificate from generating.

Reviewer 5: It's a bit too shallow in my opinion. Even if you indeed cover the most common case.
Note that I am working on a more complete documentation on the matter with some code change on the IoT to give precise error codes, see:
https://github.com/odoo/documentation/pull/3818/files
( note that the error code mention in it is not merged on Odoo's code yet)

Maybe it would be better to add here a :seealso: to my documentation (when it will be merged), what do you think ?

Author: I think linking your new doc would be good. We'll need to push these changes first and then make the change on your PR when it gets pushed, otherwise we will have a merge conflict. I sent this PR to be reviewed by my teammates today.

Author: @lse-odoo There would be a build error as I can't reference a page that hasn't been published yet. We probably should publish this PR first and then PR 3818 and make the reference then so there isn't a build error.

Reviewer 5: ok! I was just confused as "merge conflict" was not the appropriate term in this context. But I do argue with you, we will edit whatever part is necessary after if needed :)

   that no driver is selected for those printers.

The Zebra Printer doesn't print anything
----------------------------------------

Zebra printers are quite sensitive to the format of the ZPL code that is printed. If nothing comes
out of the printer or blank labels are printed, try changing the format of the report that is sent
to the printer by accessing :menuselection:`Settings --> Technical --> Views` in developer mode and
look for the corresponding template.

Barcode Scanner
===============

The characters read by the barcode scanner don't match the barcode
------------------------------------------------------------------

By default, most barcode scanners are configured in the US QWERTY format. If the barcode scanner
uses a different layout, go to the form view of the device and select the correct one.

Nothing happens when a barcode is scanned
-----------------------------------------

Make sure that the correct device is selected in the Point of Sale configuration and that the
barcode is configured to send an ENTER character (keycode 28) at the end of every barcode.

The barcode scanner is detected as a keyboard
---------------------------------------------

> Some poorly built barcode scanners do not advertise themselves as barcode scanners but as a USB

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Some barcode scanners do not advertise themselves as barcode scanners but as a USB
```

Reviewer 6: This might be worth a warning or a note

Author: I've added this in as a important note. Thanks for suggesting new wording on this sentence.

IoT Box Connection
==================

Unable to locate the pairing code to connect the IoT Box
--------------------------------------------------------

The pairing code should be printed on receipt printers connected to the IoT Box and should also be
displayed on connected monitors.

The pairing code doesn't show under the following circumstances:

-  The IoT Box is already connected to an Odoo database;

-  The IoT Box is not connected to the Internet;

-  The code is only valid for 5 minutes after the IoT Box has started. It's automatically removed
   from connected displays when this delay has expired;

-  The version of the IoT Box image is too old. It should use version 20.06 or more recent. If the
   IoT Box image is from an earlier version, then the SD card of the IoT Box will need to be
   re-flashed to update the image. (see :doc:`Flashing the SD Card <flash_sdcard>`)

If none of the cases listed above correct the issue, then make sure that the IoT Box has correctly

> started, by checking that a fixed green LED is showing next to the micro-USB port.

Reviewer 5: > next to the micro-USB port
"next to the power port" (as micro usb is not used on raspberri pi model 4)

Author: That is another great suggestion. Thanks! 👍

IoT Box is connected but it's not showing in the database
---------------------------------------------------------

When an IoT Box connects to a database, the IoT Box might restart, if that is the case, it might
take up to one minute before appearing in the database. If after some time the IoT is still not
showing, make sure that the database can be reached from the IoT Box and that the server doesn't
use a multi-database environment.

Virtual Windows IoT box not showing on the database
---------------------------------------------------

In some instances a manual restart of the physical IoT box can also resolve the issue. For the
Windows virtual IoT box a manual restart of the Odoo server can resolve database connection issues.

To restart the virtual Windows IoT server:
#. Type "Services" into the :guilabel:`Search Bar`
#. Select the Services App and scroll down to the :guilabel:`Odoo` Service.
#. Right click on :guilabel:`Odoo` and select :guilabel:`Start`. This action will manually restart
the Odoo IoT server.

> The IoT Box is connected to the Odoo database, but cannot be reached

Reviewer 5: I don't really know if we can do this in rst. But the titles are super long so if we want to put a link in Odoo to the documentation (for example, if we can detect that the issue is this one) then it would be more convenient if we have shorter section name.
I don't necessarily mean that we should have title with less text, but we can likely configure custom anchors with shorter name like mentioned at:
https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/guides/cross-referencing-with-sphinx.html#explicit-targets

So that instead of having:
https://www.odoo.com/documentation/16.0/applications/productivity/iot/config/troubleshooting.html#my-iot-box-is-connected-to-my-database-but-cannot-be-reached
we can access the same section at:
https://www.odoo.com/documentation/16.0/applications/productivity/iot/config/troubleshooting.html#iot-not-reachable
for instance

--------------------------------------------------------------------

Make sure that the IoT Box and the device running the browser are located on the same network as
the IoT Box cannot be reached from outside the local network.

If the IoT is located on the same network and still cannot be reached, then visit the IoT's web
portal/console page and accept the certificate. This will allow for the IP address re-assignment and

> a secure connection to be made.

Author: Thanks for catching this. Is there a DB I can work with that the valid HTTPS certificate will populate in? All my testing thus far has been in a test DB.

> a secure connection to be made.

Reviewer 5: @tiku-odoo not that I know of unfortunately :/

> a secure connection to be made.

Author: I've removed this section from the updated doc. Thanks for pointing this out @lse-odoo

#. Go to IoT App.
#. Click the URL (`localhost:8069 <http://localhost:8069/>`).
#. A warning may appear stating that the connection is not secure. click "Proceed" to secure the
   connection.

Printer
=======

The printer is not detected
---------------------------

If one of the printers doesn't show up in the devices list, go to the IoT Box homepage and make sure
that it is listed under :guilabel:`Printers`.

.. image:: troubleshooting/troubleshooting_printer_01.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The IoT box console landing page.

If the printer is not present on the IoT Box homepage, hit :guilabel:`Printers Server`, go to the
:guilabel:`Administration` tab and click on :guilabel:`Add Printer`. If the printer is not present
in the list, it's likely not connected properly.

.. note::
   Should the database be linked to a virtual Windows IoT box the printer will be added onto the
   actual Windows machine as there will only be the following menu items: :guilabel:`POS Display` &

>    :guilabel:`Credential`.

Author: Noted, this is for V16 only. Thanks for your review. 

This is a note to say that there will be no printer option on the Windows IOT Console.

The printer outputs random text
-------------------------------

For most printers, the correct driver should be automatically detected and selected. However, in
some cases, the automatic detection mechanism might not be enough, and if no driver is found the
printer might print random characters.

The solution is to manually select the corresponding driver. On the IoT Box homepage, click on
:guilabel:`Printers Server`, go to the :guilabel:`Printers` tab and select the printer in the list.
In the Administration dropdown, click on :guilabel:`Modify Printer`. Follow the steps and select the
Make and Model corresponding to the printer.

.. image:: troubleshooting/troubleshooting_printer_02.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Edit the printer connected to the IoT box.

.. note::
   Should the database be linked to a virtual Windows IoT box the printer will be added onto the
   actual Windows machine as there will only be the following menu items: :guilabel:`POS Display` &

>    :guilabel:`Credential`.

Author: Removing this. Thanks. This is targeted for V16.

.. note::
   Epson and Star receipt printers and Zebra label printers do not need a driver to work. Make sure
   that no driver is selected for those printers.

The Zebra Printer doesn't print anything
----------------------------------------

Zebra printers are quite sensitive to the format of the ZPL code that is printed. If nothing comes
out of the printer or blank labels are printed, try changing the format of the report that is sent
to the printer by accessing :menuselection:`Settings --> Technical --> Views` in developer mode and
look for the corresponding template.

Barcode Scanner
===============

The characters read by the barcode scanner don't match the barcode
------------------------------------------------------------------

> By default, assume that the barcode scanner is configured in US QWERTY. This is the default

Author: Noted and I've removed this.
